I bunnish yen well maybe won't be a
vegan like what would this map is just
seeing or people with this getting cash
or dime from any meat hearing it that's
the stuff we put it on inside of us is
what's causing his cancer I know I
haven't use on netflix watching your own
movie not working with the winning him
dr. you with the doc it was something
about meat on there something non manage
the cancer thing for roofer room ah ba
new CN and I pay I mentioned you
probably know you like using your drone
for anyone to get out and start showing
what those the farming operations look
like again because I don't know I just
don't know when I get back to Canada I
think I'm gonna do some of that Anita
from that Toronto Pig save we're trying
to work out something where we can film
some of these farms you know one of the
surreal ones you know uh so Vancouver
Island not to be confused with Vancouver
people or Canadian you know Vancouver
Island actually does not have
slaughterhouses all the slaughtering is
done with shotguns you know what one of
the thought yeah that's photogenic if
for anyone to get out there with a
camera and I was proposing to people
when i was there said look you don't
have to do it in a hostile way it
doesn't have to be a hidden camera it
doesn't have to be a drone you could go
and talk to the guys who do that job
like human beings just try to you know
do an interview because a lot of those
guys you know something maybe a couple
of them are jerks but a lot of them will
be happy to have it down under with
conversation to you and say yeah but
after i dropped out of high school this
is the best job I could get whatever
their story is but no they're still
doing they're still doing all the
excuses the old-fashioned way and it's
just the cost of the cost of moving the
corpses back and forth by ferry is not
it's not feasible so it's still
happening there but yeah that's the
reason I measure that think whenever you
look into it where does me to actually
come from in your area the answers are
sometimes surprising I guess I mean
that's the fundamental thing with
Toronto Pig save think for many people
in Toronto just answer the question of
where does it worry as your meat come
from but yeah for Vancouver Island Oh
surprise dances a lot of houses there
it's right really close to downtown and
it's actually right behind actually to
the slaughterhouses there's a chicken
and cow slaughter house
it's right next to a big supermarket and
nobody knows about it yeah it's really
creepy I try to cover like every topic
on my channel health xyx environment
just so there aren't really any excuses
and just so like if anybody actually
does have genuine questions about those
sort of things they're answered a big
issue too is just so much misinformation
with veganism nutrition and people just
obviously they're not really aware of
what actually goes into their food the
industry hides it pretty well so um yeah
people just need to be more informed on
Animal Ethics what happens at
slaughterhouses and it's happening more
and more slowly and like also
alternatives that are available there's
still this idea that vegan meat
substitutes taste like when most of
the good ones out in the market like
beyond meat they're actually really good
they taste exactly the same and like
beyond meat is one of the ones that are
actually trying to like sneak their
products into the meat aisle basically
they they do it on their packaging and
they actually try in the grocery store
to make sure it's right next to the like
beef burgers so well I mention this you
a million years ago on facebook but you
know taiwan they really led the way on
that taiwan really invented the current
fake meat technology and sometime if you
want to go on vacation taiwan i still
feel they have the most sophisticated
vegan food in the world um a tale of two
teachers so i guess i have more than
more than one teacher here here at this
school be a one of my teachers i think
she did it just to show me that she was
serious about veganism long term because
she's not vegan yet she agrees in
principle she just like opened up her
backpack in effect she showed me she was
like look you know like i've been
looking around and buying this stuff and
she had these like packets of fake meat
and she gave me she gave me a sample and
so on and it was it was some of the fake
meat here is frightening lee convincing
she gave she just gave me fake beef
which i could tolerate but it did they
really did taste you're eating meat but
here they make fake fish that actually
has that revolting fishy sense to it oh
my god do to me it's horrifying i mean
if you miss the taste of fish fine but
it actually makes me want to
it's such a realistic simulation the
texture slightly gooey texture of fish
meat and so on whoo it was a ya know but
they they end and they put skin on it
the fish has like fish skin and like
holy crap so yeah no but really Taiwan
led the way of that and obviously this
connection we tryna in Taiwan so they're
they're catching up here pretty pretty
quickly but then the other teacher by
contrast so the teacher I've just been
talking to for a few days so I was just
say this in contrast to your channel in
your whole approach I know obviously
you're really heavy on the the
nutritional aspects which are
fascinating the runway like the whole
the whole question of igf-1 is
fascinating it's just not what I do on
my channel I'm you know I think in the
next 10 years things like igf-1 we're
gonna get step-by-step you know a lot
more a lot more into research will
reveal you know what we don't already
know about those kinds of questions uh
but you know the second teacher when she
asked me she said like well what about
getting enough protein and she asked me
like maybe like three times we're
speaking in Chinese and it's funny
because just on such a deep level I'm so
used to that being an excuse or a
question it was like the third
time she asked that I realized this is
actually a sincere question she actually
wants to know but today and she was
she was sincere and like I say like I
didn't realize how the things I told her
I had really had a big impact in her and
she was asking cuz she was really
thinking about trying to be vegan or
going going big or going partway like I
don't you know I don't push for details
to these people but again you're so like
I can't even call jaded I'm so used to
the the arguments about health just
being a sideshow just being you know not
not they're not the real issue there the
excuse for why the person is going to
keep eating meat or what have you that
that just kind of stunned me you know I
just basically want to do whatever I
want whenever I want that's how I want
to live my life and YouTube's a pretty
good way to do that like I started
YouTube just for animal activism now
it's become a job but it's a pretty good
job it's the only job i can get with the
most freedom possible yeah so yeah i
just like to live my life that way i
totally understand you're in the tiny
minority people from that's you know
that's what YouTube is the first time
ever
talk to you like I liked your channel
back then you just started you're a
couple videos up I was like oh this is
great but like tell me like what what
kind of work you're doing on the side
like what's you what's your big job and
you said back then even you were right
at the beginning be like oh no I'm just
focusing on making YouTube my main
career and like I respected that but I
thought man that's that's one in a
million you know for YouTube to be your
only source of income yeah after the
first like two or three weeks I kind of
knew that I could actually go somewhere
with it I just got a good feeling about
it I've been doing photography for quite
some time too so I'm pretty good with
it's sort of the same business in a way
so I'm pretty good with that sort of
thing so photography videography yeah
well i mean what i would say is really
positive about YouTube is that you take
it with you everywhere you go I mean I
guess for better and worse like I'm
living in a school in China there are
definitely some people who here in this
school who hate me or a little bit
afraid of me because of my youtube
channel like they've seen that they know
who that that is and I think you know I
mean on some level it's understandable
like if they get into an argument with
me am I then going to go on youtube and
talk about it sort of thing like mean I
think in their minds that's that's
that's that's the fear but you know in
contrast to like when I left Cambodia I
lost all the front side in Cambodia when
I left France I lost all the front side
in France when I left saskatchewan lost
all the friends and Saskatchewan and so
on so I do i do really like that aspect
of it but I'm sure when you got started
you you didn't imagine you would ever be
living in Belgium but you also have this
lecture you can pack up and roll the
belgium and your life doesn't change
that much yeah yeah and uh Belgium's a
lot like Toronto really especially like
downtown Antwerp very similar so um
people are pretty much the same
everywhere I found not huge cultural
differences especially Canada to Europe
it's a lot more similar than United
States to Europe I've been to the States
before florida and the culture has got
quite a bit different
but Canada Europe pretty similar Lisa in
Toronto well wonder though does that
disappoint you on some level because I
thought like part of your interest in
places like Japan was in having a stark
contrast to what you already knew and
grew up with in in Canada well it's not
really disappointing um I wouldn't have
come here if it wasn't for Jasmine so
it's not like I was expecting much
coming here if it was Japan or somewhere
where I do want to see something really
different than yet I would be
disappointing yeah I mean like on a
really on a really deep level the
cultures I've dealt with are different
Cambodia is profoundly different even
from China and both Cambodia and China
are really really different from Canada
but to give you like one funny example
that you know relates to veganism the
two teachers i worked with most here so
far because i work with a bunch of
different teachers both of them have
asked me about veganism and both of them
i think have now like converted to
veganism in principle but they responded
to it they were first really shocked
they never thought about it before one
of them i'm pretty sure she had never
heard the word said it in chinese is all
talked about in chinese but like you
know she was familiar with the concept
but she had never heard the words you
didn't know what it was talking about at
first and like both of them it took me
while the catch on to both how sincere
they weren't asking their questions and
how deep the emotional impact was for
them with my answers these are just
verbal answers I'm not showing them
slaughterhouse footage it's just a
face-to-face conversation and I'm
speaking really blunt really simple
chinese because that's the only i can
use the language and like by contrast in
cambodia you really met people whose
response to the whole thing of veganism
and vegetarianism was refusing to even
eat a single meal you know vegan like
they wouldn't sit like with you like it
was with me they wouldn't sit in a
restaurant with your new fun-filled
vegan regarding the idea of not eating
meat as just being like humiliation
because eating meat is such an important
aspect of wealth showing that you have
money showing the joy of luxury and so
on and you know obviously um you can
literally ride a boat from this part of
china to cambodia like there's a there's
a river that connects them you know what
if you go to the ocean
no the geographic distance is nothing
but the cultural differences you know it
in every way can be so so deep and of
course that's also you know the language
differences are extremely deep also so
I've dealt with a lot of that and I mean
like so honestly obviously I've also
studied European languages and lived in
Europe probably like within Canada if
you hang out with Cree people who have
really grown up in a Cree environment
with Korea's their language and Korea's
their culture probably the difference
between Cree people and white Canadians
that's probably a bigger difference the
difference between white Canadians and
white people in Belgium or what have you
like you know so you can have huge
cultural gaps that are obviously not
really geographic mm-hmm one free person
she was at a I think it was a direct
action everywhere event where yeah it
was like some protest and she was there
yeah she's one of the few she was
talking about being Native American and
vegan and because in their culture
there's so much you know feathers
leather skin stuff like that it's a
little weird and difficult yeah no III
did talk about it with several Cree or
jablay other first nations people at
different times and was interesting
because most of them kind of
simultaneously hated factory farming and
had a lot of respect for hunting there's
always one of things comes up like I've
talked about this in my videos that were
talking about different veganism is now
compared to the animal rights scene
which is then a vegetarian seen like two
thousand one but it's like you could say
I'm like soft on hunting because for one
thing quantitatively like it's just it's
not my top priority for the same reasons
that the same reason that circuses are
not my top priority like you know circle
it's a real issue don't get me wrong if
you if I met someone who is passionate
about circuses I would be interested to
hear their perspective but circuses are
like such a tiny percentage of the issue
and then beyond that I mean wall kale
gives you just one one example that was
recent by email I got an email from a
woman it was a realist email you could
ever get and she said yeah you know I
never thought about veganism before I
found your channel I my channel so again
it's kind of jumping into the deep end
my channel is not making except a
feeling she watched a whole bunch of
videos on my channel and she
look you know like I'm like I agree with
veganism in principle now like long-term
I want to do this and I'm trying to work
it out in my life she said but she lives
in a remote part of rural Alaska where
all the people she knows her all her
surroundings are indigenous Native
American Alaska and hunters and the
winter consists of like you know I I
don't even know dried goat meat or sighs
so I don't want to stare I have no dried
deer meat whatever it is you know she's
one of the tiny minority of people
living on the edge of a natural
ecosystem where she has that kind of
life so for me like from my perspective
I would never respond to an email by
that by saying like you who you
carnist because your physician like cuz
for one thing of you know you know want
a rubbin I've already won like you know
she already agrees that in principle and
I think what she was saying was she's
gonna she's gonna eliminate any any
purchased meat from her diet she's not
gonna buy meat from a grocery store ever
again but she's gonna look at how she
can live a meaningful life that deals
those contradictions and you know a but
that's that's always what I've been when
I'm about whether you're talking someone
is a research scientist who really feels
they're finding the cure for cancer even
though they're using gone vegan
materials or what have you you know and
you know the the flip side like what one
of my teachers here again like this I
didn't realize at first like this stuff
was really emotionally about you she had
never thought about the fact that
leather is made out of an animal skin I
can completely relate so for her it was
neither good nor evil she thought
leather is the same as plastic yeah
marketed it so if you're never
introduced to the idea so you know like
that's the other thing is like okay so
what do you really want to make but it
was so coming back to like Korean
ajiboye people like First Nations people
in Canada you know we had this is back
maybe more like 2003 or something I
remember there was this like environment
voters campaign in Canada and that woman
still around she's a long time a kind of
political hack on the green left in
Canada she had this foundation and she
got some money donated from wealthy
lawyers I got respect for that I'm not
saying that the villa fire but whatever
that's the reality she had a couple of
colleagues who were wealthy lawyers who
donated money to her cause and for her
the number
one defining issue in ecology was trying
to force native Canadians to stop
hunting yo this is a doctor bottle what
it's like well you know we got you know
like how many people are wearing leather
shoes and so on and like again it's even
different if you live there if you leave
in Attawapiskat Attawapiskat is one
example of a northern you know First
Nations community if you live in
Attawapiskat and you you're friends with
those people face to face then I can
totally imagine you talking about
hunting and you know like as your own
personal friends they're wasting their
time and their money if you just look at
just the mess someone
disassembling a moose carcass and they
spend all weekend it's
depressing it's hideous and the
end of it they're killing themselves
apart from the fact that meat is bad for
your health as you're selling some time
you could do it you could do a video on
this you may not be aware but there's a
huge body of scientific research on the
harm you do lead from lead poisoning
that when you eat hunted meet the
bullets directly and there's also an
indirect ecosystem effect that our First
Nations catching on they have massive
lead poisoning problems so anyway
they're getting lead poisoning from
eating this is it's really it's really
interesting because yeah there's a knock
on ecosystem effect where the bullet
fragments etc they stay in the ecosystem
so they stay look at the surface layer
of the grass etc in the forest of the
deer are eating and they stay switch to
a copper ammunition right anyway I know
there's been a non-lead ammunition
movement in on firing regions and so on
but this is this is more of a you know
over decades in a shallow ecosystem of
that because northern Canada this is not
that this is not the jungle of Cambodia
you know I mean it's it's a really
shallow ecosystem anyway so they're
killing themselves with lead poisoning
apart from all the negative effects of
the meat heavy diet etc etc sure if you
live there and that's your community
that's one thing but to me I remember I
talked to her directly I talked to that
woman this is before the internet was
very powerful but I sent her email and
then we had a phone call and it was like
you know what sense does this make and
how can I commit my time and money while
you're making the cornerstone of ecology
the 21st century basically shaming you
accept the forest
was marginal people care of that well
you know and anyway and still because i
myself i did work on first nations
languages I've known like most white
people never really meet or talk to many
First Nations people in the whole lives
like you know I appreciate that like
it's just like distant and unreal but um
I can't imagine like if I had stayed on
that path that it would be something I
talked about with people but hello still
those questions are priority are really
tough so do you want to talk a little
bit about about you know vegan youtube
BS because I mean to me it's not just
drama and these are all people you know
we know when have in common to some
extent I take it I mean you've never
been to Thailand I think you you you
probably know the o-line of the story
that I unexpectedly found myself going
to Chiang Mai because I was on my way
here and you know yeah well I mean it is
what it is every so often people say to
me either privately or publicly they're
like sometimes it's an insult terms is
just a reflection people like hey you
know like you and during writer have a
lot in common it's like I know like
we're both vegan activists were both
actually devoted to a lot of the same
principles like I get the irony like I
really do recognize that in a perfect
world he and I could at least respect
each other or like not he had conflict
was like I get it you know I mean I'm
not the last person to figure out
including so like he and I have both
lived in Thailand we both done
long-distance cycling that's way before
i do youtube channel but i have that
kind of background to like you know
apart from the commitment to veganism
animal rights ecology but well it's like
no I know this is somebody have a lot in
common with and that whatever what they
want to say that makes it more sad or
more tragic or whatever I mean you know
it makes it more of a waste of human
talent you know um something's happened
to him recently like I know a lot of
people thought he was crazy even a few
years ago but something's happened
recently where his behaviors definitely
changed quite a lot um I think he's
losing it
diet earth thank you pass mental issues
parting part of the part of the story is
steroids which is you know one of your
favorite talk I mean you know it was
effectively it was Hannah Khloe who
outed him on that Hannah Khloe made a
viet where she directly said it and then
freely confirmed it at their public Q&A
where she really said publicly know you
are I know so then yeah then he had no
choice different excuses to take
steroids throughout like years and years
like a two thing like right it was all
horseshit and he has a diet that isn't
good for testosterone levels and it
makes sense that he'd take steroids to
come and say for that had to feel better
but uh yeah it's doing something to him
I think it's a combination of his diet
and maybe some of the steroids he's
taking well that's the thing about
steroids like any other drug that
affects your whole body your whole
system it's not topical people always
think they can predict how it's going to
change them but most of the time you
can't really predict how it's gonna
change you you know like behavioral
aspects of steroids like I have a lot of
experience with that like I've trained
in gyms for so long and a lot of my
training partners have been on gear and
the last training partner I had he was a
pretty heavy steroid user he do like
blasts and cruise cycles so cruising
you're just taking like 500 milligrams
of testosterone per week but then when
he's like training for a show or
something he dad in like trenbolone
insulin growth hormone he'd go
nuts like totally different person when
he was just on a little bit he he's
totally nice guy friendly but then he
just became a total dick and
yeah it seems a lot the same as
durianrider like he's just become a
complete dick yeah I mean one of the
oddities you know when I was out there
so I mean in case you haven't figured it
out like the Thai fruit festival is not
a festival the only thing they do is
meet at the top of the hill once a day
like there's just it's not like they
have a bunch of its they don't even go
swimming or that's it there's one thing
that happens a day and there was one day
when neither freely nor durianrider went
to the top of the hill and nobody got
advanced warning nobody got explanation
they just didn't show
and so you know people who were in that
obviously I'm not again there's a mrs. I
never showed up at any other events I
never could crash anything there were
enough people in chiang mai who were
friends of mine wanted to be friends my
people want to meet up with me that i
could just do my own thing i was just
there i had no intention on showing up
in their events but obviously it's a
small world and youtube makes it smaller
that day the day when neither one of
them showed up durianrider was that was
the day when he was sending me messages
all day threatening to beat me up and
the cell you've seen the messages I
don't have to you know uh that was that
one day and honestly you know so then
whatever like weeks later when people
like vegan cheetah were saying that they
had broken up during writer and freely
at first I completely thought it was
I thought come on you make then
I looked back at like the timeline of
what happened with me of what happened
with freely and Durham writer in Chiang
Mai while I was there and the timeline
of him being on steroids which again
it's very likely as he himself has
explained to you in detail it's very
easy to get steroids in Thailand legally
recently where he just picks up steroids
from a pharmacy or something like he's
been getting him consistently for a
while so I mean most likely you know you
get this kind of timeline of okay so he
goes back to Thailand he gets back on
the steroids he apparently breaks up
with freely or at least they suddenly
like do you know any couple that stays
not not in separate hotel rooms in
separate hotels completely separate
hotels and not even sleeping on the same
block you know uh it's a bit surreal and
again like you know I know obviously I'm
not claiming credit for it but I was
there as this kind of canary in the coal
miner this catalyst for it and again I
also thought it was strange at the
beginning I assumed freely was there by
his side 110% when he was attacking me
and so on but I mean you know she had
been you know that apology video I made
in someone I really did say look you
know here's a bridge if you want to
cross it um it's interesting but i would
guess that already they were really
pretty estranged when that went down and
then we all got to see it we all got to
see their whole lives fall apart
strange too because they still kind of
seem to be on good terms free Lee's
messaged me through email saying I
shouldn't have done that to durianrider
and she also still links his channel in
our YouTube videos I think to this day
so it's weird really weird situation
yeah by me know being vegan is lonely
for everyone so lonely at the top it's
lonely at the bottom you know nobody
nobody wants to be alone um but you know
if I if I'm in love with somebody I
don't stay in a separate hotel that's
just ridiculous you if you're staying in
separate hotels you've broken up like
from my from my perspective but you know
obviously I don't say everything you
will you know steroids can make you
aggressive so who knows like the thing
durianrider it seems like he still has
issues with depression he says he had an
eating disorder when he was younger it
still seems like he has an eating
disorder he has three point nine percent
body fat which is less than half the
absolute minimum percent you can have to
be a healthy male like and he he claims
three-point-nine percent perfectly
healthy eats so much processed sugar and
I think that's another way that he deals
with his depression I don't know like
and people are asking him for advice on
depression and if you watch Julia Bors
interview with him really really
disturbing oh man i know that made me
feel so old that video because i talk to
younger younger people but younger women
every day like I you don't want as a
university campus in Canada but in my
real life whatever like all the time I'm
in that position of being like
grandfather giving advice or whatever
it's okay like I've gone or mph or me
but holy during writer and I are
about the same age it's like wow this is
the advice you give a sixteen-year-old
whether it was about sex or depression
or anything else yeah but in what you're
saying was wear condoms literally anyway
uh just funny for me though because I
mean you know their whole movement is
totally devoted a happiness to being
happy today to doing what you want to
live in your life your way let's like I
cuts a permanent vacation so on and my
life has nothing to do with that it's
just not to might think of my life at
all you know I go there I show up in
Chiang Mai like I said I wasn't there to
get cry
I went to the zoo I was trying to talk
to different charities NGOs animal
endangered animal type foundations like
what I was planning to do with my time
there really had nothing to do with
during writer and he he interrupted what
I was doing and made it about during
runner but you know it's just so weird
for me because I'm meeting all these
people who are just there to be happy
they're just there to have a good time
and none of them are happy and none of
them are having a good time and all of
them are walking around with their faces
in their hands saying is this who we
really are is this what it's come to
because shocking and they're all
implicated in it they all know before
they meet me and they know what during
writer is trying to do to me and what
have you and they know he's done it
before and maybe in their minds they
made excuses you know before when it was
someone they didn't really know or
someone you know whatever the story was
and so they know that this is really it
this is your vacation you know anyway
and my life's wonderful by country I
Bettis yen a lot of the guys react when
you can't even front of them as they
should few steps back a little more than